Python 
1.What is init keyword ?
known as constructor, initializes objects of a class.run as soon as an object of a class is instantiated. 

2.What is self keyword ?
self represents the instance of a class. used as the first parameter in instance methods 
to reference the current object.

3.What is lambda functon?
is an anonymous function using the lambda keyword.It's typically used for short, one-line functions.
They are often used in situations where a function is needed temporarily or as an argument to 
higher-order functions like map(), filter(), and sorted().

4.Difference between lambda and normal function?
Lambda functions are compact and used for quick tasks, 
while normal functions offer more flexibility and readability for complex operations.

5.What are generators? When to use ? share one example
Generators in Python use the yield keyword to lazily produce values one at a time, creating an iterator. 
They're ideal for conserving memory, especially with large datasets or potentially infinite sequences, 
as they generate values on-demand. When a function contains yield, it becomes a generator function.

6.Python is compiled or interpreted language ? what does it mean?
Python is often called an interpreted language because it executes code line by line at runtime. 
However, it first compiles source code into bytecode before execution. 
The Python Virtual Machine (PVM) then executes this bytecode. 
This hybrid approach offers benefits like platform independence and allows for dynamic execution 
and code manipulation.

7.What is the difference between list and tuples in Python?
Lists:[1,2,3,4] Mutable (can change) , Time-consuming iterations, Easier insertions and deletions, Memory consumption is more,
many built-in methods,more likely to encounter errors
Tuples:(1,2,3,4) Immutable (cant change),faster iterations compared to lists, no insertions/deletion, Memory consumption is less,
fewer built-in methods,less prone to errors.

8.What is the difference between list and set in Python?
lists are ordered collections that allow duplicates and are mutable, 
while sets are unordered collections that do not allow duplicates and are mutable. 
Lists are suitable for sequences of elements, 
while sets are useful for storing unique elements and performing set operations.

9.When to use dictionary?
Dictionaries in Python are useful when you need to store data in key-value pairs. 

10.What are decorators? When to use ? share one example
Decorators in Python are functions that wrap other functions or methods to extend or modify their behavior, using the @decorator_name syntax. 
They're useful for tasks like logging, authorization, caching, rate limiting, and validation, enhancing the functionality of existing code 
without altering its structure.

11.What are Iterators?
An iterator in Python is an object used to iterate over iterable objects like lists, tuples, dicts, and sets. 
It's initialized using the iter() method and iterated using the next() method. When using a for loop, 
Python internally employs iter() and next() methods. The iteration ends with a StopIteration signal.

12.What is slicing?
Slicing is extracting a portion of a sequence like a list, tuple, or string by specifying start, end, and optional step size indices. 
It retrieves multiple elements efficiently.

13.What is mutable and immutable?
mutable objects can be modified after creation, while immutable objects cannot be modified once created.

14.Python is single thread or multithread?
 Python supports both single-threaded and multi-threaded programming, with the threading module providing 
facilities for creating and managing threads.
However,Python's Global Interpreter Lock GIL can impact the performance of multi-threaded programs in CPU-bound scenarios.

15.What is GIL
The GIL (Global Interpreter Lock) in Python ensures that only one thread executes Python bytecode at a time, preventing true parallelism in multi-threaded programs. 
This limitation hinders the full utilization of multiple CPU cores for CPU-bound tasks.

16.What you don’t like about python?

17.What is list Comprehension?
List comprehension offers a more concise and readable alternative to traditional loops for creating lists, 
making your code more expressive and efficient.
ex: lst  =  [x ** 2  for x in range (1, 11)   if  x % 2 == 1]

18.What are Dunder methods? Give examples
Dunder methods, also called magic methods or special methods, are prefixed and suffixed with double underscores (__). 
They enable objects to emulate built-in Python behavior, support operator overloading, customize behavior, and interact with the Python data model.

19.What does _init_ method do?
The __init__ method is a special method (constructor) in Python automatically called when a new instance of a class is created. 
Its purpose is to initialize the attributes of the object.

20.Difference between array and numpy library.
while both the array module and numpy library offer array-like data structures in Python, 
numpy provides a more powerful and efficient solution for numerical computations and array manipulation, 
making it the preferred choice for scientific computing and data analysis tasks.